---
title: "Learning to Write"
date: 2024-03-19T21:09:49+08:00
draft: false 
---

> Writing is thinking. To write well is to think clearly. That's why it's so hard. - David McCullough

I can now understand what differentiates between a good expert versus a great expert: the quality of their writing. Good expert understands how the thing works; great expert understand how the thing works and how to communicate it clearly. Clarity here is the keyword. If you cannot explain a problem clearly, you may not fully understand the problem yet. 

This is the biggest gap that I can identify now. I am just good, not great.  
I work as a software engineer. I write every single day. I write codes, documentations, technical designs, messages, emails. All of these requires writing. I did write, but not as well as I should be. My writings were rushed, unstructured, aimless, and obscure. I wrote too many words, but conveyed a little. I produced so many writings, but solved zero problem. 

Clarity in writing is clarity in thinking. If your writing sucks, you probably didn't let the thought marinate long and well enough in your brain. 

I want to train my brain to think clearly. This is why I am starting a writing challenge again! The first few hundred writings may be bad (just like this), but it will be worth the grind! One day, I will be looking back to this writing and say, "Wow, I really wrote this garbage?". 

I found a really interesting 30-day writing challenge [here](https://www.elevenwriting.com/blog/30-day-writing-challenges-for-2024#microblogging-madness). I will **try** to follow this challenge to hone my writing skill. Feel free to tag along! This would be a humbling and rewarding experience for me. 

> This post is not generated by AI 
